README.md, before:

# OwonB41T
A Windows Bluetooth(BLE) client for the Owon B41T+ multimeter. Any BLE adaptor is compatible, so no dongle needed!  
Requires Windows 10  
I will be posting binaries in the future, but you should be able to compile this yourself if your Visual Studio environment is up to date.

## Current Features
This project is currently early in development, but I've completed the core functionality: 
* Compatibility with any Bluetooth Low Energy adapter (built-in ones included)
* Connecting to an Owon B41T+ by device name or mac address
* Printing data from the meter to stdout
* Controlling the meter with simluated button presses from stdin
* Downloading and printing stored offline data

## Features Coming Soon
* Retries for failed or dropped connections
* Command line argument parsing to make this a useful interface for use with other programs
* Sending non-button commands to the meter: start logging, stop logging, download recorded data, rename device... etc.
* Output format customization

## Example Usage
If you haven't changed your multimeter's name, it should just connect automatically. Otherwise, you can pass the name (or a substring) of your multimeter as the first argument to the program.
```
$ ./x64/Release/OwonB41T.exe 2>/dev/null
0.0082  V AC    AUTO
0.0086  V AC    AUTO
0.0086  V AC    AUTO
0.0079  V AC    AUTO
```
After the meter is connected, you can interact with it using the following keys (for now, you must press return to send each keypress).
| Button | Key | 
| :------------- | :----------: |
| Hold/Backlight | h |
| Select | s |
| Range | r |
| Hz/Duty | z |
| Max/Min | m |
| Rel/BLE | d |

To simulate pressing and holding a key, use a capital letter instead, e.g. sending an 'H' turns on the backlight. 

## Offline/Recorded Data
Offline data support is in progress right now, but sending `o` to stdin (followed by a newline) will download the recorded data and print it to stdout:

```
typed: 'o'
Sending command: *READlen?
Will attempt to downlod 62 bytes
Sending command: *READ1?
downloading: 16.9492%
downloading: 33.8983%
downloading: 50.8475%
downloading: 67.7966%
downloading: 84.7458%
#       2021-02-04 20:26:18     13.62   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:19     13.69   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:20     13.43   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:21     13.84   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:22     13.55   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:23     13.96   m V AC
```

---


NOTE: The current methods of interacting with the meter will certainly be changed in the future. This is just what I slapped together while I was trying to get the more complicated bits working.

Commit message:

Added section describing meter renaming

README.md, after:

# OwonB41T
A Windows Bluetooth(BLE) client for the Owon B41T+ multimeter. Any BLE adaptor is compatible, so no dongle needed!  
Requires Windows 10  
I will be posting binaries in the future, but you should be able to compile this yourself if your Visual Studio environment is up to date.

## Current Features
This project is currently early in development, but I've completed the core functionality: 
* Compatibility with any Bluetooth Low Energy adapter (built-in ones included)
* Connecting to an Owon B41T+ by device name or mac address
* Printing data from the meter to stdout
* Controlling the meter with simluated button presses from stdin
* Downloading and printing stored offline data

## Features Coming Soon
* Retries for failed or dropped connections
* Command line argument parsing to make this a useful interface for use with other programs
* Sending non-button commands to the meter: start logging, stop logging, download recorded data, rename device... etc.
* Output format customization

## Example Usage
If you haven't changed your multimeter's name, it should just connect automatically. Otherwise, you can pass the name (or a substring) of your multimeter as the first argument to the program.
```
$ ./x64/Release/OwonB41T.exe 2>/dev/null
0.0082  V AC    AUTO
0.0086  V AC    AUTO
0.0086  V AC    AUTO
0.0079  V AC    AUTO
```
After the meter is connected, you can interact with it using the following keys (for now, you must press return to send each keypress).
| Button | Key | 
| :------------- | :----------: |
| Hold/Backlight | h |
| Select | s |
| Range | r |
| Hz/Duty | z |
| Max/Min | m |
| Rel/BLE | d |

To simulate pressing and holding a key, use a capital letter instead, e.g. sending an 'H' turns on the backlight. 

## Offline/Recorded Data
Offline data support is in progress right now, but sending `o` to stdin (followed by a newline) will download the recorded data and print it to stdout:

```
typed: 'o'
Sending command: *READlen?
Will attempt to downlod 62 bytes
Sending command: *READ1?
downloading: 16.9492%
downloading: 33.8983%
downloading: 50.8475%
downloading: 67.7966%
downloading: 84.7458%
#       2021-02-04 20:26:18     13.62   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:19     13.69   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:20     13.43   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:21     13.84   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:22     13.55   m V AC
#       2021-02-04 20:26:23     13.96   m V AC
```

## Renaming the Meter
Sending an `@` followed by a new device name (then a newline) will rename your multimeter. The name is limited to 14 characters total and the string `B41T+` is currently appended to the end of your inputted name by default. This ensures the default search substring of `B41T` still finds your meter.  
This is just a quick solution, so this method of renaming is very likely to change in the future.  
Also, be careful of what characters you input for the name. I blocked all non-print characters and a handful of symbols to ensure nothing very weird can happen where the meter would become unrecognizable due to unknown issues with special characters.

---

## Notes
I have tested this software on three different computers and I haven't seen any compatability issues, but your mileage may vary. Please let me know if the releases don't run or the .sln does not compile.

The current methods of interacting with the meter will certainly be changed in the future. This is just what I slapped together while I was trying to get the more complicated bits working.

There is currently a bug where connecting to the meter will fail and hang in extremely rare circumstances. I have not tried figuring out the issue, as it is so difficult to replicate and happens so infrequently. Killing the program and restarting it resolves it.
